README.md, before:

# python-telegram-bot-pagination

[![Download Month](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/python-telegram-bot-pagination.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-telegram-bot-pagination)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination)

Provide easy way for create number pagination with inline keyboard for telegram bot on python.

#

[Simple example](https://github.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination/blob/master/examples/example.py)

![](https://github.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination/raw/master/examples/media/3.jpg) ![](https://github.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination/raw/master/examples/media/f1.jpg)

#### Installation

    pip install python-telegram-bot-pagination

#### Usage
        from telegram_bot_pagination import InlineKeyboardPaginator

        paginator = InlineKeyboardPaginator(
            page_count,
            current_page=page,
            data_pattern='page#{page}'
        )

        bot.send_message(
            chat_id,
            text,
            reply_markup=paginator.markup,
        )


Init arguments:
* page_count - integer, total 1-based pages count.
* current_page - integer, 1-based current page. Default 1
* data_pattern - string with python style formatting named argument 'page'. Used for generate callback data for button. Default '{page}'

Properties:
* markup - json object for [InlineKeyboardMarkup](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#inlinekeyboardmarkup) TelegramAPI type
* keyboard - array of button's dist 

#### Button render controlling:
For edit button render, use paginator object properties:

* first_page_label
* previous_page_label
* current_page_label
* next_page_label
* last_page_label

All of them can by python style formatting string with one arg, or simple string.

For example:

    class MyPaginator(InlineKeyboardPaginator):
        first_page_label = '<<'
        previous_page_label = '<'
        current_page_label = '-{}-'
        next_page_label = '>'
        last_page_label = '>>'

    paginator = MyPaginator(page_count)

Result:

![](https://github.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination/raw/master/examples/media/m2.jpg)

Commit message:

add example with python-telegram-bot

README.md, after:

# python-telegram-bot-pagination

[![Download Month](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/python-telegram-bot-pagination.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-telegram-bot-pagination)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination)

Provide easy way for create number pagination with inline keyboard for telegram bot on python.

#

[Example](https://github.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination/blob/master/examples/example.py) with [pyTelegramBotAPI](https://github.com/eternnoir/pyTelegramBotAPI)

[Example](https://github.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination/blob/master/examples/example2.py) with [python-telegram-bot](https://github.com/python-telegram-bot/python-telegram-bot)

![](https://github.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination/raw/master/examples/media/3.jpg) ![](https://github.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination/raw/master/examples/media/f1.jpg)

#### Installation

    pip install python-telegram-bot-pagination

#### Usage
        from telegram_bot_pagination import InlineKeyboardPaginator

        paginator = InlineKeyboardPaginator(
            page_count,
            current_page=page,
            data_pattern='page#{page}'
        )

        bot.send_message(
            chat_id,
            text,
            reply_markup=paginator.markup,
        )


Init arguments:
* page_count - integer, total 1-based pages count.
* current_page - integer, 1-based current page. Default 1
* data_pattern - string with python style formatting named argument 'page'. Used for generate callback data for button. Default '{page}'

Properties:
* markup - json object for [InlineKeyboardMarkup](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#inlinekeyboardmarkup) TelegramAPI type
* keyboard - array of button's dist 

#### Button render controlling:
For edit button render, use paginator object properties:

* first_page_label
* previous_page_label
* current_page_label
* next_page_label
* last_page_label

All of them can by python style formatting string with one arg, or simple string.

For example:

    class MyPaginator(InlineKeyboardPaginator):
        first_page_label = '<<'
        previous_page_label = '<'
        current_page_label = '-{}-'
        next_page_label = '>'
        last_page_label = '>>'

    paginator = MyPaginator(page_count)

Result:

![](https://github.com/ksinn/python-telegram-bot-pagination/raw/master/examples/media/m2.jpg)
